Now the new import export syntax
becomes interesting once we use some node J-S globals.
Now what do I mean by that?
Let me show you.
I'm sending back the content of my my page html file
and I'm doing this by reading it in with the file system.
We can absolutely do that, it works as you can tell,
but we could also send back the file in a different way.
The response object exposed by express also has a send file
method and this one's a file which it should send back.
The thing just is if you just specify
the file name like this it will not work.
Then I'll restart the server and I reload here
you see I get an error that the path
must be absolute in the end.
Now we learned how we can build an absolute path
throughout this course because we had various places
in our code where we needed such an absolute path.
We can import path from path so from the path core module
and then we construct such a absolute path
by calling path join and then we concatenate
the different path segments.
We typically start with dirname here
and then any folder into which we might wanna go.
In this case we have no such folder
and then the file name which we wanna work with
if we need a file name.
In this case we do so this would be the place
where we now add my page html but the key thing
is that we have dirname first which is basically
the path to the current working directory
so to your directory here in which your app files lie
and path join then constructs one long absolute path
from this path and this path so it in the end
combines both path segments into one long absolute path.
The problem with that if we run it
is that if I now reload I get dirname is not defined.
Now dirname underscore underscore dirname
of course was a global variable reused multiple times
throughout the course and it just worked.
With the modern ES module syntax, it does not work anymore
because there are no globals anymore with this syntax.
So these global variables like dirname or file name
which you could use with the other import export syntax
with the require function, that does not exist here anymore.
Now of course this is you could say a known issue
and if you search for dirname in the ES module's
documentation here you see that indeed
these variables are not available here
but you also see a workaround, how you can
still get your dirname back.
What we need is more imports from core node modules
and then we can construct our own
dirname variable in the end based on
this special pseudo global variable
we can access you could say so let's do that.
Let's first of all add those two imports here to our file.
Here I'm importing dirname from path
and actually as you can see this is a named import.
Now we already do import something from path
and we'll be importing the end to this
entire path object which exposes all its methods.
Alternatively it just turns out
that the path module does two things.
It exports the entire path object
so that we can import it like this basically as a default
but alternatively it also exports all the methods
we can call on path as standalone named functions.
So I could also just import join from here
and then also dirname in addition.
Alternatively I could have also imported path
and some named import side by side with this syntax.
So first your default import and then separated
with a comma the named imports this would all be possible.
And to show you this syntax I'll stick
to this approach here.
Then I also import from the URL module
and now we can construct our own
variables by copying this code.
Now what does this code do?
Import dot meta dot URL is basically a globally
available variable you could say
which gives you the path to this file name.
So to the response handler J-S file name
and the file URL to path function just converts
that URL to a path with which the path
package then is able to work.
And the dirname function provided by the path package
just takes such a path to the current file
to basically give you the path to the current folder
in which this file sits and with that we rebuilt
our dirname variable now not available globally
but rebuildable with this approach.
And hence if we save that and restart the application
now we can reload this page and we now send back
a file with the send file method.
Now why did I show you this?
Because it's important to be aware of the fact
that those global variables which you can use
with the other import export syntax
are not available with this new syntax
but that you also understand how you can
rebuild them and still use them.
And that's the modern E-S modules import export syntax.
As I mentioned multiple times using it is 100% optional.
It is the syntax you know from browser side applications
though from modern client side apps therefore.
So hence you might feel inclined to also using here a node.
Sticking to the other syntax which I used through
the majority of this course is of course fine though.
There is a reason why I used that other syntax
and the reason is that this new syntax
as I also mentioned already is experimental
at the moment as the node team says itself
in the official docs and that the vast majority
of node projects out there will use that other syntax.
So if you're joining a team working
on some node project you need
to be aware of that other syntax.
Nonetheless this modern syntax is also pretty nice
and it's not too difficult to switch to it as you can tell.